---
title: Prepare certificates and [other things] for Microsoft Managed Desktop 
description:  certs/wifi/lan
keywords: Microsoft Managed Desktop, Microsoft 365, service, documentation
ms.service: m365-md
author: jaimeo
ms.localizationpriority: normal
ms.collection: M365-modern-desktop
---

Certificates 
 
Certificate-based authentication is a common requirement for customers using Microsoft Managed Desktop.  Certificates may be required for scenarios including accessing Wi-Fi or LAN, connecting to VPN solutions, or for accessing internal resources in your Organization.   
 
As Microsoft Managed Devices are Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) joined devices and are managed by Microsoft Intune, these certificates must be deployed using a Microsoft Intune integrated SCEP or PKCS certificate infrastructure.    
 
Certificate requirements 
 
Root certificates are required for the deployment of certificates through a SCEP or PKCS infrastructure. In addition, other applications and services within your organization may require root certificates to be deployed to your Microsoft Managed Desktop devices.    
 
To prepare for Microsoft Managed Desktop, ensure you have evaluated and captured these certificate requirements.  
 
In addition, before you deploy SCEP or PKCS certificates to the Microsoft Managed Desktop, you may wish to gather your organization’s requirements for each service that requires a user or device certificate.  To do so, you can use one of the following planning templates:  
 
MMD SCEP Certificate Template 
MMD PKCS Certificate Template 


 
Note 
 
Currently, only SCEP certificate profiles are supported for Wi-Fi profile deployment to the Microsoft Managed Desktop when using an EAP type.  PKCS certificate profiles are not supported.    See Add Wi-Fi settings for Windows 10 and later devices in Intune 
 
 
 
  
Wi-Fi connectivity requirements 
 
To allow a machine to be automatically configured with the required Wi-Fi configuration for  your enterprise network, a Wi-Fi configuration profile may be required. This configuration can be pushed to Microsoft Managed Desktop devices through a Wi-Fi Configuration Profile using Microsoft Intune.   Your Wi-Fi network infrastructure may also need to be evaluated for compatibility with Microsoft Managed Desktop devices if your network security requires machines to be part of the local domain (Microsoft Managed Desktop devices are Azure AD joined only). 
 
In addition, before you deploy a Wi-Fi configuration to Microsoft Managed Desktop devices, you will be required to gather your organization’s requirements for each Wi-Fi network.  To do so, use the following planning template: 
 
MMD WiFi Profile Template 
 
Wired connectivity requirements : 802.1x authentication 
 
If you utilize 802.1x authentication to secure access from devices to your Local Area Network (LAN) you will need to push the required configuration details to your Microsoft Managed Desktop devices.   Microsoft Managed Desktop devices running Windows 10 version 1809 and later supports deploying an 802.1x configuration through the WiredNetwork configuration service provider (CSP).  For more information, see WiredNetwork CSP documentation. 
 
Before you deploy a wired network configuration profile to Microsoft Managed Desktop devices, you will be required to gather your organization’s requirements for your wired corporate network. To do so, use the following process: 
 
 
Logon to a device that has your existing 802.1x profile configured and is connected to the LAN network  
Open a command prompt with administrative credentials  
Find the LAN interface name by using the command: netsh interface show interface 
Export the LAN profile XML using this following command: netsh lan export profile folder=.  Interface=”interface_name” 
If needed, it’s possible to test your exported profile on an MMD device using the following command:  
netsh lan add profile filename="PATH_AND_FILENAME.xml" interface="INTERFACE_NAME" 
 
 
Deploy certificate infrastructure  
 
If you already have an existing SCEP or PKCS infrastructure with Intune and this meets your requirements, this can also be used for the Microsoft Managed Desktop.   If no SCEP or PKCS infrastructure exists, this will need to be prepared.  
 
For more information, see Configure a certificate profile for your devices in Microsoft Intune. 
 
 
 
Deploy a LAN profile 
 
Once your LAN profile has been exported, you can prepare the policy for Microsoft Managed Desktop using the following steps:   
 
Create a custom profile in Microsoft Intune for the LAN profile using the following settings (see Custom settings for Windows 10) : 
Custom OMA-URI Settings, select Add. Enter the following settings: 
Name: Modern Workplace-Windows 10 LAN Profile 
Description: Enter a description that gives an overview of the setting, and any other important details. 
OMA-URI (case sensitive): Enter ./Device/Vendor/MSFT/WiredNetwork/LanXML 
Data type: Choose String (XML file) 
Custom XML: Upload the exported XML file 
Submit a service request to MMD Operations using the Microsoft Managed Desktop Admin Portal to review and deploy the configuration profile to “Modern Workplace Devices – Test” 
MMD Operations will advise, via the MMD Admin portal, when the request has been completed 
 
Deploy certificates and Wi-Fi/VPN profile 
 
 
Create a profile :  
for each of the Root and Intermediate certificates (see Create trusted certificate profiles)  
Must have a description that includes Expiration Date (Format Date should be DD/MM/YYYY) 
for each SCEP or PKCS certificates (see Create a SCEP certificate profile or Create a PKCS certificate profile) 
Must have a description that includes Expiration Date (Format Date should be DD/MM/YYYY) 
for each corporate WiFi (see Wi-Fi settings for Windows 10 and later devices) 
for each corporate VPN (see VPN settings for Windows 10) 
Submit a service request titled “Certificate Deployment” or “Wi-Fi Profile Deployment” to MMD Operations using the Microsoft Managed Desktop Admin Portal to review and deploy the configuration profile to “Modern Workplace Devices – Test” 
MMD Operations will advise, via the MMD Admin portal, when the request has been completed. 
 
Note : Certificate profile without expiration date will not be deployed to Microsoft Managed Desktop Devices. 
 